

# Checklist
- [ ] Item 1

---
# Notes
Dr. Price likes the phage display idea, which is this:

## **Phage Librarian**

Can we develop a model that becomes an expert in a gene/protein?

(Roughly) The problem to solve is that phage although rather cheap (around 450$ from a quick Google search), it can become incredibly tedious and can take nearly two months to obtain data. Likewise, not every lab is well equipped with the materials required for phage display, severely impacting accessible it can be. There are many more problems to determine, however, and this is not a complete thought at this point

The idea is to create a *phage librarian*, or an AI model that has been trained on a phage library to become an expert in a specific gene/protein.

In general, you would do the following whenever one determines a gene or protein to learn about:

1. Perform a standard phage display to obtain a phage library.
2. Using some experiment, rank the *entire* library by some metric. This could be, for example, ease of elution from an ELISA or fluorescence in flow cytometry.
3. Deep sequence the library to construct a datafile containing every sequence and its associated measurement
4. Train a model on the library for downstream tasks

Now there are some major complications with this that need to be considered. Most notably, data would be ***extremely*** difficult to handle -- though not impossible. Having a dataset of millions of near-identical sequences (only different at 1-5 point mutations compared to the original sequence) creates a massive hyper-fixation issue. I will need to research mitigating factors to this in order to make this process feasible in the first place.

As for data acquisition, ***Flow Cytometry*** seems like a strong candidate. Using *yeast surface display* to affix antibodies to the surface of cells, one could reasonably separate cells according to their fluorescence/binding. There may be some other strong methods to do this, however, such as a *dirty ELISA* where all samples are put on a binding plate and eluted at increasing concentrations of elution solution or using temperature/chemically labile plates